---
layout: post
title: "On Ithaka"
date: 2017-01-19 22:03
published: true
tags:
- Ithaka
- Siddhartha
excerpt: “As you set out for Ithaka hope your road is a long one...
---

## [](#header-2)On Ithaka

>As you set out for Ithaka<br/>
>hope your road is a long one,<br/>
>full of adventure, full of discovery.<br/>
>Laistrygonians, Cyclops,<br/>
>angry Poseidon - don't be afraid of them:<br/>
>you'll never find things like that on your way<br/>
>as long as you keep your thoughts raised high<br/>
>as long as a rare excitement<br/>
>stirs your spirit and your body.<br/>
>Laistrygonians, Cyclops,<br/>
>wild Poseidon - you won't encounter them<br/>
>unless you bring them along inside your soul,<br/>
>unless your soul sets them up in front of you.<br/>
>
>Hope your road is a long one.<br/>
>May there be many summer mornings when,<br/>
>with what pleasure, what joy,<br/>
>you enter harbors you're seeing for the first time;<br/>
>may you stop at Phoenician trading stations<br/>
>to buy fine things,<br/>
>mother of pearl and coral, amber and ebony,<br/>
>sensual perfume of every kind -<br/>
>as many sensual perfumes as you can;<br/>
>and may you visit many Egyptian cities<br/>
>to learn and go on learning from their scholars.<br/>
>
>Keep Ithaka always in your mind.<br/>
>Arriving there is what you're destined for.<br/>
>But don't hurry the journey at all.<br/>
>Better if it lasts for years,<br/>
>so you're old by the time you reach the island,<br/>
>wealthy with all you've gained on the way,<br/>
>not expecting Ithaka to make you rich.<br/>
>
>Ithaka gave you the marvelous journey.<br/>
>Without her you wouldn't have set out.<br/>
>She has nothing left to give you now.<br/>
>
>And if you find her poor, Ithaka won't have fooled you.<br/>
>Wise as you will have become, so full of experience,<br/>
>you'll have understood by then what these Ithakas mean.<br/>
>
>-- C.P. Cavafy,translated by Edmund Keeley

In Siddhartha (Herman Hesse), our protagonist spends his years searching for enlightenment. In this pursuit, he goes from Brahmin to Samana, from Samana to merchant, from merchant to ferryman. Only when he has fully embraced and fully forsaken each experience does he come to the conclusion that:

>I have experienced on my body and on my soul that I needed sin very much, I needed lust, the desire for possessions, vanity, and needed the most shameful despair, in order to learn how to give up all resistance, in order to stop comparing it to some world I wished, I imagined, some kind of perfection I had made up, but to leave it as it is and to love it and to enjoy being a part of it.

It takes Siddhartha years to reach his enlightenment, and we find that at the end of the day, his enlightenment simply means a love for his world here and now, with all its flaws, and its imperfections, and its sins, and its beauty.

Until recently, I find that I have been single-mindedly racing toward my Ithaka. In my last semester of college, it seems like a ripe time to make my "[stops] at Phoenician trading stations."

190117 22:03

[back](/index)
